a shimmering portal closes behind your
back
a smiley guide greets you hey you're not
the first person to travel between the
worlds
but such a journey still remains
something out of the ordinary
at first sight the place is not that
different from your own
the same people the same transport
similar architecture
hmm then why did your friends swear it
would be the trip of your life
your travel agent told you the town
you'd be visiting is at the seaside
that's why you ask your guide if you
could spend some time near the ocean
he gives you a funny look but agrees
the day's brilliant sunny and hot it
feels only natural to take your clothes
off to get some sun
after a while you get up to go have a
swim and foamy waves
but your guide grabs your arm his grip
is unexpectedly strong
his face anxious no it was risky enough
to come to the beach and stay so close
to the water
and now you're gonna take a chance with
your life
huh that's all you can answer there must
be some misunderstanding
what's so dangerous about this beach rip
currents
the guide suddenly calms down don't tell
me you don't know why people from your
world travel here
you shake your head and the man starts
to laugh
when he's done chuckling he becomes
serious and mutters
okay i'll show you something you won't
be able to forget
ever let's go
you walk along the beach keeping more
than enough space between you and the
water
what surprises and worries you the most
is the eerie silence
the only sound you can hear is waves
hitting the shore
no kids cheering no surfers riding their
boards
no fishers waiting for a good catch your
guide slows down
and you see a small harbor for some
mysterious reason
it's separated from the open ocean by a
thick metal fence with massive gates
you and your guide are heading for a
large boat or rather a ship
just how many people are going to join
us on this excursion you ask
it's just the two of us and the crew
your guide replies
in our world it's too dangerous to put
to sea on a smaller vessel
and indeed you notice no fishing boats
or yachts nearby
you follow your guide downstairs and see
a large cabin with a glass floor
feel free to step on the glass it's
super thick and literally unbreakable
the ship starts vibrating and moves away
from the shore
you're watching the rocky bottom corals
and schools of colorful fish pass by
the water under the ship is getting
darker all of a sudden
your guide whispers here it is
the creature is enormous longer than a
semi-trailer
and almost as long as the vessel you're
on its body shape resembles that of the
modern day
monitor lizard but longer and more
streamlined
this makes the animal more fitted for
swimming
its limbs are short with webbing between
fingers
it also has a wide tail with a broad
triangular plate on it
while swimming the critter keeps its
body stiff to reduce the drag through
the water
the only thing that's moving is its
mighty tail
as soon as you manage to get your voice
under control you scream
a dino nope your guy doesn't agree
it's a mosasaur they are dinosaurs
these creatures are reptiles you must
have their close relatives in your world
snakes and monitor lizards the mossosaur
you see
is one of the largest species which are
quite rare
there are many kinds of these reptiles
and the smallest is a mere 3 feet long
the average length is 13 feet at the
most
but big specimens still occur that's why
we have to build such large sturdy ships
just one tail swiped from this beast and
a smaller vessel would be broken in half
the mossasaur you still find it hard to
wrap your mind around it
is swimming under your boat for some
time and then
swooshes up to the surface your guide
answers the question in your eyes
mossasaurs need air that's why they
regularly rise to get some
that's the reason they prefer shallow
coastal waters
the creature returns this time you get a
chance to see
its jaws each is completed with two
extra rows of triangular teeth
behind them you spot its tongue and wait
is it really forked all in all the
creature's mouth looks like one of a
snake
including the teeth they're also curved
backward not to let prey slip away
your guide chooses this moment to start
telling you about the awesome creature
yeah mosasaurus has evolved around 100
million years ago
but 34 million years later something
went wrong
and they didn't disappear like it
happened in your world
that's why now our oceans are very
different from yours
fish and mammals in our oceans have
developed special traits that allow them
to avoid mossasaurus
plus thanks to this reptile we have a
much greater diversity of marine species
you notice your mossasaur dashing up
into the left
when it returns there's something that
looks suspiciously like a bird in its
jaws
noticing your surprise the guide
explains mosasaurs eat pretty much
anything from fish and mollux to
seabirds and turtles
suddenly your guide screams scaring you
out of your wits
there there can you see it honestly
speaking at first you see nothing
but after straining your eyes you spot
two
huge shadows circling each other your
guide is brimming with excitement
you can't imagine how lucky we are i've
been doing this job for 15 years but
i've never seen a mosasaur
fighting with a megalodon for a moment
your mind stops functioning has he just
said there are megalodons in his world
and then you see it a giant animal is
coming closer
it's almost 60 feet long bigger than the
whale shark
the largest of all the shark species in
your world
your guide keeps blabbing both of these
creatures are top predators
mosasaurs are usually a bit smaller than
megalodon's
but this one's huge as the sea monsters
get closer
you managed to get a better look at the
mag its jaws can open for almost 10 feet
and are littered with five rows of sharp
serrated teeth
they're built in such a way so that they
don't crack even after hitting bone
the meg is an ambush hunter continues
your guide
it probably wanted to take the mosses or
by surprise by attacking it from below
but this attempt failed now the
predators are moving in circles
likely sizing each other up they look
rather angry
and hungry the mossasaurus tried to get
closer to the shark's tail or fins
the creature understands there's no way
it could bite through the meg's bulky
sides
the shark chooses another tactic it's
aiming for the mossasaur's
long midsection the critters start
circling faster
getting closer to each other the
mossasaur keeps
changing its pace from slow almost lazy
movements
to nervous bursts of speed once it sees
the meg approaching
the shark is swimming in a steady way
watching the opponent with its piercing
black
eyes you can't help but think it's
pretty obvious which animal is going to
be the winner
the mossasaur's jaws are suited for
small prey like
fish its jaws wouldn't be able to open
wide enough to get around the mag
because even though both creatures are
of the same length
the meg's body is much more massive its
jaws are also
more powerful designed to deal with
whales and other large marine animals
plus the mossasaur's body isn't
efficient for high-speed swimming
it gives the shark another advantage
in a flash the meg twists its body and
rushes at the mosasaur
its maneuver is not to let the enemy get
an upper hand
by striking from below the two powerful
creatures clash each other
you see the mossosaur try to maneuver
out of the meg's way
but to no avail you're clinching your
fists
silently sending your support to the
mossasaur and then
a sudden jerk and you find yourself on
the floor
go go go your guide shouting at the
skipper it turns out the animals got so
engrossed in their confrontation
that they didn't notice the vessel and
crashed into its side
now it's crucial to get as far away from
them as possible
if these huge creatures decide the ship
is their common enemy
they may cooperate to attack it
luckily for you the beast don't realize
the thing they collided with
is actually a container with food the
boat is getting further and further away
and you can only guess the outcome of
the battle
too soon for your liking you reach the
shore
the guide who still looks thoroughly
stunned drives you back to the portal
you similarly odd thank him and step
through the shimmering veil
you're clutching at a mosasaur tooth in
your hand it's the skipper's gift to you
the only reminder about the incredible
world
where mosasaurs are still roaming the
oceans